[DOC] updates to oauth config chapter including latest config attributes (#2313)
strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator: documentation/modules/oauth/con-oauth-authentication-broker.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// assembly-oauth.adoc

[id='con-oauth-authentication-broker-{context}']
= {oauth} Kafka broker configuration

Kafka broker configuration for {oauth} involves:

> * Client configuration (for the Kafka broker) on an authorization server

Reviewer: I think this is quite confusing ... what about

```suggestion
* Creating the {oauth} client in the authorization server
```

> * {oauth} authentication configuration in the Kafka cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* {oauth} authentication configuration in the Kafka custom resource
```

.Authentication method type for {oauth}
[source,yaml,subs="+quotes, attributes"]
----
apiVersion: {KafkaApiVersion}
kind: Kafka
spec:
  kafka:
    listeners:
      *tls*:
        authentication:
          type: *oauth*
          #...
----

You can configure `plain`, `tls` and `external` listeners, as described in xref:assembly-configuring-kafka-broker-listeners-deployment-configuration-kafka[Kafka broker listeners],
but it is recommended not to use `plain` listeners with {oauth} as this creates a vulnerability to network eavesdropping and unauthorized access through token theft.

You configure an `external` listener with `tls: true` for a secure transport layer to communicate with the client.

.External listener with TLS
[source,yaml,subs="+quotes"]
----
# ...
listeners:
  tls:
    authentication:
      type: oauth
  external:
    type: oauth
    *tls: true*
    authentication:
      type: tls
# ...      #...
----

== Fast local JWT token validation configuration

Fast local JWT token validation checks a JWT token signature locally.

The local check ensures a token:

> * Conforms to type (`oauth`)

Reviewer: Should the type here be JWT token instead of `oauth`?

Author: @mstruk - do we have the correct type here for Fast local JWT token validation configuration?

Reviewer 2: It should be `Bearer`.

Reviewer 2: To clarify, a JWT token 'conforms to type' by containing a 'typ' claim with value equal to 'Bearer'. It's on of the checks performed by default. The value 'Bearer' means that the token is an access token rather than a refresh token for example.

Author: @mstruk - thanks for clarifying. I've updated to: Conforms to type by containing a (_typ_) claim value of `Bearer`

* Is valid (not expired)
* Has an issuer that matches a `validIssuerURI`

> You specify a `validIssuerUri` attribute when you configure the listener, so that any tokens not issued by the authorization server are rejected.

Author: It's lower case 'i'

The authorization server does not need to be contacted during fast local JWT token validation.
You activate fast local JWT token validation by specifying a `jwksEndpointUri` attribute, the endpoint exposed by the {oauth} authorization server.
The endpoint contains the public keys used to validate signed JWT tokens, which are sent as credentials by Kafka clients.

> NOTE: All communication with the authorization server should be performed using HyperText Transfer Protocol Secure (HTTPS).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: All communication with the authorization server should be using TLS encryption.
```

NOTE: In relation to the authorization server, Kafka brokers and Kafka clients are both regarded as {oauth} clients.

== {oauth} client configuration on an authorization server

To configure a Kafka broker to validate the token received during session initiation,
the recommended approach is to create an {oauth} _client_ definition in an authorization server, configured as _confidential_, with client credentials enabled:

* Client ID of `Kafka`
* Client ID and Secret as the authentication mechanism

NOTE: You only need to use a client ID and secret when using a non-public introspection endpoint of the authorization server.
The credentials are not typically required when using public authorization server endpoints, as with fast local JWT token validation.

== {oauth} authentication configuration in the Kafka cluster

To use {oauth} authentication in the Kafka cluster, you specify a TLS listener configuration for your Kafka cluster custom resource with the authentication method `oauth`:

.Authentication method type for {oauth}
[source,yaml,subs="+quotes, attributes"]
----
apiVersion: {KafkaApiVersion}
kind: Kafka
spec:
  kafka:
    listeners:

>       *tls*:

Reviewer: I think this does not need to be bold since it can be used with other interfaces as well.

```suggestion
      tls:
```

        authentication:
          type: *oauth*

>           #...

Reviewer: Should this have some complete example? Users will be copy pasting and will be surprised it does not work.

Author: We're just showing the method here and building up the configuration through the section. 
The procedures should be where the copy and pasting happens.

----

You can configure `plain`, `tls` and `external` listeners, as described in xref:assembly-configuring-kafka-broker-listeners-deployment-configuration-kafka[Kafka broker listeners],
but it is recommended not to use `plain` listeners with {oauth} as this creates a vulnerability to network eavesdropping and unauthorized access through token theft.

You configure an `external` listener with `tls: true` for a secure transport layer to communicate with the client.

.External listener with TLS
[source,yaml,subs="+quotes"]
----
# ...
listeners:
  tls:
    authentication:
      type: oauth
  external:
    type: oauth
    *tls: true*
    authentication:
      type: tls

> # ...      #...

Reviewer: This should be something like this:

```yaml
# ...
listeners:
  tls:
    authentication:
      type: oauth
  external:
    type: loadbalancer
    authentication:
      *type: oauth*
# ...
```

(Sorry, GitHub still cannot do multiline suggestions)

Author: Workaround: If you make a multiline suggestion, then cancel, the lines are still selected in the source. Then you can choose '+' and make your multiline suggestion.

Author: We introduce this section, mentioning `tls:true` -- not needed?

Reviewer: It is `true` by default. So it is not needed. If you keep it, maybe we at least don't need it to be bold.

Author: Okay. I've kept it and mentioned that it's true by default, so it can be left off.

> # ...      #...

Reviewer: Same as above ... Should this have some complete example? Users will be copy pasting and will be surprised it does not work.

Author: I'm not sure we need to repeat what we have in the procedures. But to emphasize that it's not the end of the story, I've added:

> When you've defined the type of authentication as {oauth}, you add configuration based on the type of validation, either as <<con-oauth-authentication-broker-fast-local, fast local JWT validation>> or <<con-oauth-authentication-broker-intro-local, token validation using an introspection endpoint>>.
> 
> The procedure to configure {oauth} for listeners, with descriptions and examples, is described in xref:proc-oauth-broker-config-{context}[Configuring {oauth} support for Kafka brokers].
>

Reviewer: Right. The problem is that the reader doesn't know there will be a procedure later. He will think that this is it. The added test makes it clear so that works for me.

You activate fast local JWT token validation by specifying a `jwksEndpointUri` attribute, the endpoint exposed by the {oauth} authorization server.
The endpoint contains the public keys used to validate signed JWT tokens, which are sent as credentials by Kafka clients.

NOTE: All communication with the authorization server should be performed using TLS encryption.

You can configure a certificate truststore as a Kubernetes Secret in your {ProductName} project namespace, and use a `tlsTrustedCertificates` attribute to point to the Kubernetes Secret containing the truststore file.

You might want to configure a `userNameClaim` to properly extract a username from the JWT token.
If you want to use Kafka ACL authorization, you will need to identify the user by their username during authentication.
(The `sub` claim in JWT tokens is typically a unique ID, not a username.)

.Example configuration for fast local JWT token validation
[source,yaml,subs="+quotes, attributes"]
----
apiVersion: {KafkaApiVersion}
kind: Kafka
spec:
  kafka:
    listeners:
      tls:
        authentication:
          type: oauth

>           validIssuerUri: _<URL-on-auth-server>_

Reviewer: Can we get here some real examples instead of the place holders? In the other places you use for example `validIssuerUri: <__https://<auth-server-address>/auth/realms/external__>` which is great.

Reviewer 2: These URLs depend on the specific authorization server, and how it is configured. Maybe if there is a section in the docs with specific examples using a specific authorization server it would have to contain fully working config examples that can be copy pasted. Maybe here we don't really want that?

Reviewer: Seeing the example address might help the users better understand what kind of URL are we looking for (at least in some cases). `URL-on-auth-server` doesn't tell them anything.

Author: I've based the examples on the external one we use in the procedure. But as we're not using external here, I swapped 'external' in the path to `tls`.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// assembly-oauth.adoc

[id='con-oauth-authentication-broker-{context}']
= {oauth} Kafka broker configuration

Kafka broker configuration for {oauth} involves:

* Creating the {oauth} client in the authorization server
* Configuring {oauth} authentication in the Kafka custom resource

NOTE: In relation to the authorization server, Kafka brokers and Kafka clients are both regarded as {oauth} clients.

== {oauth} client configuration on an authorization server

To configure a Kafka broker to validate the token received during session initiation,
the recommended approach is to create an {oauth} _client_ definition in an authorization server, configured as _confidential_, with client credentials enabled:

> * Client ID of `Kafka`

Author: I've changed to: Client ID of `kafka` (for example)

* Client ID and Secret as the authentication mechanism

NOTE: You only need to use a client ID and secret when using a non-public introspection endpoint of the authorization server.
The credentials are not typically required when using public authorization server endpoints, as with fast local JWT token validation.

== {oauth} authentication configuration in the Kafka cluster

> To use {oauth} authentication in the Kafka cluster, you specify a TLS listener configuration for your Kafka cluster custom resource with the authentication method `oauth`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use {oauth} authentication in the Kafka cluster, you specify for example a TLS listener configuration for your Kafka cluster custom resource with the authentication method `oauth`:
```

.Assigining the authentication method type for {oauth}
[source,yaml,subs="+quotes, attributes"]
----
apiVersion: {KafkaApiVersion}
kind: Kafka
spec:
  kafka:
    listeners:
      tls:
        authentication:
          type: *oauth*
          #...
----

You can configure `plain`, `tls` and `external` listeners, as described in xref:assembly-configuring-kafka-broker-listeners-deployment-configuration-kafka[Kafka broker listeners],

> but it is recommended not to use `plain` listeners with {oauth} as this creates a vulnerability to network eavesdropping and unauthorized access through token theft.

Reviewer: Maybe you can phrase it better, but this adds for a more complete message.

```suggestion
but it is recommended not to use `plain` listeners or `external` listeners with disabled TLS encryption with {oauth} as this creates a vulnerability to network eavesdropping and unauthorized access through token theft.
```
